---
bibliography: SPPCitations.bib
csl: apa.csl
---

 

SmartParkingLot Project
=======================

Projects website: <https://bigbosstony.github.io/>

Table of Contents
=================

1.  [Proposal](#proposal)

2.  [References](#references)

Proposal
--------

*Proposal for the SmartParkingLot Project\* Prepared by Yan Yu* Computer
Engineering Technology Student\*

**Executive Summary** 

As a student in the Computer Engineering Technology program, I will be
integrating the knowledge and skills I have learned from our program into this
Internet of Things themed capstone project. This proposal requests the approval
to build the hardware portion that will connect to a database as well as to a
mobile device application. The internet connected hardware will include a custom
PCB with sensors and actuators for \_detective car entry, taking pictures and
trigger the parking gate_. The database will store the number plates. The mobile
device functionality will include \_checking the plate number and parking time
and will be further detailed in the mobile application proposal. I will be
collaborating with the following company/department \_Humber Department of
Public Safety_. In the winter semester I plan to form a group with the following
students, who are also building similar hardware this term and working on the
mobile application with me Thomas Chang, Alisha Singh Chauhan. The hardware will
be completed in CENG 317 Hardware Production Techniques independently and the
application will be completed in CENG 319 Software Project. These will be
integrated together in the subsequent term in CENG 355 Computer Systems Project
as a member of a 2 or 3 student group.

**Background**

The problem solved by project is \_when we entering a parking lot, we need to
stop to take a ticket and when we left we have to go the ticket machine to pay
our ticket. By working with this project we take pictures and read the plate
number automatically, so we can save more time and be environmental friendly.
Background \_ANPR – Automatic number plate recognition is a technology for
automatically reading vehicle number plates. And OpenALPR is a similar system,
accuracy above 97 percent and it is open source. We can adjust OpenALPR to
Raspberry Pi 2. HD camera for taking pictures at both Entry and Exit. Database
used to store plate numbers and then calculate the duration of how long the car
has been parking. Infrared ray to detective the car in the entry or exit. Driver
could pay at the exit by using Interac™ Card, smartphone with NFC or cash.

 

I have searched for prior art via Humber’s IEEE subscription selecting “My
Subscribed Content”[1] and have found and read [2] which provides insight into
similar efforts.

 

The first [@6213519]

 

The second [@1516083]

 

The third [@1510592]

 

The forth [@7030255]

 

 

In the Computer Engineering Technology program we have learned about the
following topics from the respective relevant courses:

• Java Docs from CENG 212 Programming Techniques In Java,

• Construction of circuits from CENG 215 Digital And Interfacing Systems,

• Rapid application development and Gantt charts from CENG 216 Intro to Software
Engineering,

• Micro computing from CENG 252 Embedded Systems,

• SQL from CENG 254 Database With Java,

• Web access of databases from CENG 256 Internet Scripting; and,

• Wireless protocols such as 802.11 from TECH152 Telecom Networks.

This knowledge and skill set will enable me to build the subsystems and
integrate them together as my capstone project.

 

**Methodology**

This proposal is assigned in the first week of class and is due at the beginning
of class in the second week of the fall semester. My coursework will focus on
the first two of the 3 phases of this project:  
Phase 1 Hardware build.  
Phase 2 System integration.  
Phase 3 Demonstration to future employers.

*Phase 1 Hardware build*

The hardware build will be completed in the fall term. It will fit within the
CENG Project maximum dimensions of 12 13/16" x 6" x 2 7/8" (32.5cm x 15.25cm x
7.25cm) which represents the space below the tray in the parts kit. The highest
AC voltage that will be used is 16Vrms from a wall adaptor from which +/- 15V or
as high as 45 VDC can be obtained. Maximum power consumption will be 20 Watts.

*Phase 2 System integration*

The system integration will be completed in the fall term.

*Phase 3 Demonstration to future employers*

This project will showcase the knowledge and skills that I have learned to
potential employers.

The tables below provide rough effort and non-labour estimates respectively for
each phase. A Gantt chart will be added by week 3 to provide more project
schedule details and a more complete budget will be added by week 4. It is
important to start tasks as soon as possible to be able to meet deadlines.

**Labour Estimates**

**Hrs**

**Notes**

**Phase 1**

 

 

a) Writing proposal.

9

Tech identification quiz.

b) Creating project schedule. Initial project team meeting.

9

Proposal due.

c) Creating budget. Status Meeting.

9

Project Schedule due.

d) Acquiring components and writing progress report. 

9

Budget due.

e) Mechanical assembly and writing progress report. Status Meeting.

9

Progress Report due (components acquired milestone).

f) PCB fabrication.

9

Progress Report due (Mechanical Assembly milestone).

g) Interface wiring, Placard design, Status Meeting.

9

PCB Due (power up milestone).

h) Preparing for demonstration.

9

Placard due.

i) Writing progress report and demonstrating project.

9

Progress Report due (Demonstrations at Open House Saturday, November 7, 2015
from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m.).

j) Editing build video.

9

Peer grading of demonstrations due.

k) Incorporation of feedback from demonstration and writing progress report.
Status Meeting.

9

30 second build video due.

l) Practice presentations

9

Progress Report due.

m) 1st round of Presentations, Collaborators present.

9

Presentation PowerPoint file due.

n) 2nd round of Presentations

9

Build instructions up due.

o) Project videos, Status Meeting.

9

30 second script due.

**Phase 1 Total**

**135**

 

**Phase 2**

 

 

a) Meet with collaborators

9

Status Meeting

b) Initial integration.

9

Progress Report

c) Meet with collaborators

9

Status Meeting

d) Testing.

9

Progress Report

e) Meet with collaborators

9

Status Meeting

f) Meet with collaborators

9

Status Meeting

g) Incorporation of feedback.

9

Progress Report

h) Meet with collaborators

9

Status Meeting

i) Testing.

9

Progress Report

j) Meet with collaborators

9

Status Meeting

k) Prepare for demonstration.

9

Progress Report

l) Complete presentation.

9

Demonstration at Open House  Saturday, April 9, 2016 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.

m) Complete final report. 1st round of Presentations.

9

Presentation PowerPoint file due. 

n) Write video script. 2nd round of Presentations, delivery of project.

9

Final written report including final budget and record of expenditures, covering
both this semester and the previous semester. 

o) Project videos.

9

Video script due

**Phase 2 Total**

**135**

 

**Phase 3**

 

 

a) Interviews

TBD

 

**Phase 3 Total**

**TBD**

 

**Material Estimates**

**Cost**

**Notes**

**Phase 1**

 

 

a) A microcomputer composed of a quad-core Windows 10 IoT core compatible
Broadcom BCM2836 SoC with a 900MHz Application ARM Cortex-A7 32 bit RISC v7-A
processor core stacked under 1GB of 450MHz SDRAM, 10/100 Mbit/s Ethernet, GPIO,
UART, I²C bus, SPI bus, 8 GB of Secure Digital storage, a power supply, and a
USB Wi-Fi adaptor.

\>\$80.00

An example of a retailer: [3].

b) Peripherals with cables

 

 

c) Sensors

 

 

d) Actuators

 

 

e) Hardware, etc.

 

 

**Phase 1 Total**

**\>\$200.00**

 

**Phase 2**

 

 

a) Materials to improve functionality, fit, and finish of project.

 

 

**Phase 2 Total**

**TBD**

 

**Phase 3**

 

 

a) Off campus colocation

\<\$100.00

An example: [4].

*Shipping*

*TBD*

 

*Tax*

*TBD*

 

*Duty*

*TBD*

 

**Phase 3 Total**

**TBD**

 

**Concluding remarks**

This proposal presents a plan for providing an IoT solution for Parking Lot.
This is an opportunity to integrate the knowledge and skills developed in our
program to create a collaborative IoT capstone project demonstrating my ability
to learn how to support projects such as the initiative described by [3]. I
request approval of this project.

 

 

 

References
----------

 
